Where are you on the spectrum of hope for, uh,
the role of automation in trucking?
I think automation is, is inevitable. And again, I think the,
this is really going to be transformative and it's going to be,
I I've studied the history of trucking technology as much as I can there,
you know, there's not a lot, a lot of great stuff written.
Then you kind of have to, you know, uh,
there isn't a lot of data in places to knows our volumes of stuff and how
they're changing, et cetera.
But the big revolutionary changes in,
in trucking are because of constellations of factors.
It's not just one thing, right? So Daimler builds, you know, motorized truck.
And I think it's 1896, right? Um, inner city trucking.
So basically what they use that truck for is just to swap out horses, right.
They basically do the same thing. The service doesn't really change, you know?
Um, and then world war II really spurs the development of bigger,
larger trucks like spreads, you know, air, air filled tires.
And then we start paving roads, right. And paved roads,
right. Air-filled tires and the internal combustion engine.
Now you've got a winning mix.
Now it met with demand for people who wanted to get out from under the thumb of
the railroads, right?
So there was all of this pent up demand to get cheaper freight from
the countryside into cities and between cities that typically had to go by
rail. And so now, you know,
40 years after that internal combustion engine,
it becomes this absolutely essential, right. This necessary,
but not sufficient piece of technology to create the modern trucking industry,
um, in the 1930s.
And I think self-driving is going to be self-driving trucks are going to be part
of that. And the idea, I don't know, I guess we, we credit Jeff Bezos.
The idea is, you know, um, okay, so Sam Walton,
if we can do it like a slight tangent on sort of the importance of trucking to
business strategy and sort of how it has transformed our, our world,
the central insight that Sam Walton had that made him the giant that he
was in influencing the way that so many people get stuff
was a trucking insight.
And so if you look at the way that he developed his system,
you build a distribution center and then you ring it with stores.
Those stores are never further out from that distribution center.
Then a human driven truck can drive back and forth in one day.
And so rather than the way,
all of his competitors were doing it with sending trucks all over the place and
having people sleep overnight and sort of making the trucking service fit
where they had, he designed the layout of the stores,
right. To fit what trucks could do. And so transportation and logistics,
right. Become Walmarts, you know, edge, right.
And allows them to dominate the space. That's the challenge that Amazon has now,
they've, they've mastered the digital part of it, right?
And now they got to figure out like, how do we, you know,
dominate the actual physical movement that compliments that,
um, others are obviously going to follow,
but the capabilities of these trucks is completely different than the
capability of human driven trucks. So if your Smith's packing right,
and you've got, you know, uh,
a bunch of meat in a warehouse and it's going to grocery distribution centers,
you know,
you have that trucker probably come in the night before and you make them wait.
So they has, you know, a full 10 hour break,
which is what the law requires so that he can get to the furthest reaches,
that he can have one of those stores, right.
So he can drive his full 11 hours and, and bring that meat.
So it doesn't have to sit overnight in that refrigerated trailer. Right.
And so their system is based on that.
Now what happens when that truck can now travel
two times as far, right?
Three times as far now you don't need the warehouses where they were.
Now, you can go super lean with your inventory instead of having meet here,
meet there, meet there. You can put it all right here. And if it's cheap enough,
substitute those transportation costs for all that warehousing costs, right?
So this is going to remake landscapes in the same way that big
box supply chains did. Right. And then of course,
the further compliment of that is, you know,
how do you then get it to two people at their door, right. And,
you know, the big box supply chain,
it moves very few items in really large quantities
to very few locations, pretty slowly, right. Um,
e-commerce aspires, you know, to do something completely different, right. Move,
huge varieties of things in small quantities, virtually everywhere,
as fast as possible. Right. Um,
and so that is like that intercity trucking under
the, you know, in the era of, of railroad monopolies, right.
The demand for that is potentially enormous. Right. And, and that,
so there's, there is such a, so right now, I think a lot of the,
the business plans for sort of automated trucks, right.
And sort of the way that the journalistic accounts portray it is like, okay,
if we swap out a human for a computer, what are the labor costs per mile?
And like, oh, here's the profitability of self-driving trucks.
Like this is transformative technology.
We're going to change the way we get stuff.
So we can actually get a lot more trucks period with like the.
Autonomous truck could,
because that would enable a very different kinds of transportation networks.
You think?
Yeah. Here's and this is where it's like, oh, like, yeah.
So we really thought we were going to be electrifying trucks if
they're going twice as far, if they're moving three times as much,
if they're going three times as far, right.
What does that mean for how far we are behind on batteries? Right.
We've got sort of these ideas about like, man, we, you know, here's how far,
how close we could get to meet this demand.
That demand is going to radically change. Right? These trucks are, you know,
so then we've got to think about, all right, if it's not batteries, you know,
how are, how are we powering these things?
And how many of them are they're going to be like right now,
we've got 5 million containers that move from LA and long beach to
Chicago on rail.
Rail is three or four times,
at least more efficient than trucks in terms of greenhouse gas
emissions. And on that lane, it varies a lot depending on demand,
but maybe rail has a 20% advantage in cost, maybe 25%,
but it's a couple of days slower.
So now you cut the cost of that truck transportation per mile, by 30%.
Now it's cheaper than rail and it gets the stuff there five days faster than
rail. How many millions of containers are going to leave LA in long beach,
on self-driving trucks and go to Chicago and.
Look very much like a train. If, if we go with a platooning solution,
uh, you have these rows of like,
imagine like rows of like 10, like dozens of trucks or like hundreds of trucks,
like some absurd situation just going from LA to Chicago.
Yeah. Just this train, but taking up a highway. I mean, um,
I, this is probably a good place to talk about various scenarios.
But before we get there, can I, can I just make one,
one interesting observation that I made as a driver, um,
when you're in a truck you're up higher, you know, so you can,
you can see further and you can see the traffic patterns and, um,
cars move in packs. Um, I'm sure there's academic research on this. Right.
But they move in packs.
They kind of bunch up behind a slower car and then a bunch of break free.
And this is sort of on almost free-flowing highways.
They kind of move in packs and you can kind of see them in the truck. So,
you know, rather than platoons, we might have like hives, you know, of trucks,
right? So you have like 20 trucks moving in some coordinated fashion, right.
And then maybe the self-driving cars are, you know,
cause people don't like to be around them or whatever it is. Right.
You might have a pot of, you know,
20 self-driving cars sort of moving in a packet behind them. You know,
this is what.
If the aliens came down or we're just observing cars, which is one of the,
uh, sort of prevalent characteristics of human civilization is there seems to be
these cars, like moving around that would do this kind of analysis, like, huh.
What's the interesting clustering of situations here, uh,
especially with autonomous vehicles, uh, I like this.